## Algorand

[Algorand](https://www.algorand.com/) is a proof-of-stake blockchain
cryptocurrency protocol.

## BLAKE2b

BLAKE2 is a cryptographic hash function based on
[BLAKE](<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BLAKE_(hash_function)>). The design goal
was to replace the widely used, but broken, MD5 and SHA-1 algorithms in
applications requiring high performance in software.

## BLS

[BLS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BLS_digital_signature) stands for
Boneh–Lynn–Shacham cryptographic signature scheme, which is a cryptographic
signature scheme which allows a user to verify that a signer is authentic.

## CBOR

[CBOR](https://cbor.io/) stands for the Concise Binary Object Representation,
which is a data format whose design goals include the possibility of extremely
small code size, fairly small message size, and extensibility without the need
for version negotiation.

## CID

[CID](https://spec.filecoin.io/#section-libraries.multiformats.cids) is short
for Content Identifier, a self describing content address used throughout the
IPFS ecosystem. CIDs are used in Filecoin to identify files submitted to the
decentralized storage network. For more detailed information, see
[the github documentation for it](https://github.com/ipld/cid).

## IPLD

[IPLD](https://github.com/ipld) stands for InterPlanetary Linked Data, which is
a series of standards and formats for describing data in a
content-addressing-emphatic way.

## JWT

[JWT](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JSON_Web_Token) stands for JSON Web Token,
which is a proposed Internet standard for creating data with optional signature
and/or optional encryption whose payload holds JSON that asserts some number of
claims. The tokens are signed either using a private secret or a public/private
key.

## SECP

types of elliptic curves used for ECDSA see
[here](https://www.johndcook.com/blog/2018/08/21/a-tale-of-two-elliptic-curves/)

## multisig

A [multi-signature](https://lotus.filecoin.io/lotus/manage/multisig/) (multisig)
wallet refers to a wallet that requires multiple keys to authorize a `FIL`
transactions.

## Tipset

Tipset is a structure that contains a non-empty collection of blocks that have
distinct miners and all specify identical epoch, parents, weight, height, state
root, receipt root

## Tipsetkey

A set of CIDs forming a unique key for a tipset.

## mempool

mempool stands for the Message Pool, which is the component of forest that
handles pending messages for inclusion in the chain. Messages are added either
directly for locally published messages or through pubsub propagation.

## Merkle

[Merkle tree](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Merkle_tree) is a tree in which
every node is labelled with the cryptographic hash of a data block, and every
node that is not a leaf (called a branch, inner node, or inode) is labelled with
the cryptographic hash of the labels of its child nodes. A hash tree allows
efficient and secure verification of the contents of a large data structure.

## IPFS

[IPFS](https://github.com/ipfs/ipfs) stands for InterPlanetary File System which
is a peer-to-peer hypermedia protocol to make the web faster, safer, and more
open.

## Proof of Spacetime (PoSt)

PoSt stands for Proof-of-Spacetime is a procedure by which a storage-miner can
prove to the Filecoin network they have stored and continue to store a unique
copy of some data on behalf of the network for a period of time.

## HAMT

[HAMT](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hash_array_mapped_trie) stands for Hash
array mapped trie, which is an implementation of an associative array that
combines the characteristics of a hash table and an array mapped trie.

## VRF

[VRF](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Verifiable_random_function) stands for a
Verifiable Random Function that receives a Secret Key (SK) and a seed and
outputs proof of correctness and output value. VRFs must yield a proof of
correctness and a unique & efficiently verifiable output.

## MDNS

[MDNS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multicast_DNS) stands for Multicast DNS,
which is a protocol, that resolves hostnames to IP addresses within small
networks that do not include a local name server.

## Kademlia

[Kademlia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kademlia) is a distributed hash table
for decentralized peer-to-peer computer networks.

## LibP2P

[LibP2P](https://libp2p.io/) is a modular system of protocols, specifications
and libraries that enable the development of peer-to-peer network applications.
